--Name: T-SQL Chapter 5 Hmwk

--Author: Derek Cobb

--Date: July 21, 2019

Read chapter 5, pages 161 - 183 in the T-SQL Fundamentals book.

Discussion questions

--1. What is a table expression? Can you give a technical definition of a table expression?

(pg 161) A table expression is a named query expression that represents a valid relational table.

--2. In what SQL clause are derived tables (table valued subqueries) located?
(pg 161) Derived tables (also known as table subqueries) are defined in the FROM clause of an outer query.

--3. Why can you refer to column aliases in an outer query that you defined in an inner table valued
subquery?

(pg 163)  The program only sees the aliases names. It does not care whether it is in an outer query or an inner query.

--4. What SQL key word defines a common table expression?

(pg 167) CTEs are defined by using a WITH statement and have the following general form:
WITH <CTE_Name>[(<target_column_list>)]
AS
(
<inner_query_defining_CTE>
)
<outer_query_against_CTE>;

--5. When using common table expressions, can a subsequent derived table use a table alias declared in a
preceding table expression?

(Me) No

--6. Can a main query refer to a previously defined common table expression by multiple aliases?
(pg 169) As you can see, the CTE YearlyCount is defined only once and accessed twice in the FROM clause of
the outer query—once as Cur and once as Prv. You need to maintain only one copy of the inner query
(the code inside the CTE). The solution is clearer and less prone to errors.

--7. In SQL, is a view a durable object?
(pg 171) Views and inline table-valued functions (inline TVFs) are two types of table expressions whose definitions are
stored as permanent objects in the database, making them reusable.

--8. In a view, what does WITH CHECK OPTION do? Why is this important?
(pg 177) The purpose of the WITH CHECK OPTION is to prevent modifications through the view that conflict with the
view’s filter.

--9. In a view, what does SCHEMABINDING do? Why is this important?
(pg 176) The SCHEMABINDING option is available to views and UDFs; it binds the schema of referenced objects
and columns to the schema of the referencing object. It indicates that referenced objects cannot be
dropped and that referenced columns cannot be dropped or altered.

--10. What is a table valued function?
(pg 178) Inline TVFs are reusable table expressions that support input parameters. In most respects, except for
the support for input parameters, inline TVFs are similar to views. For this reason, I like to think of inline
TVFs as parameterized views, even though they are not formally referred to this way

--11. What does the APPLY operator do?
(pg 180) The APPLY operator operates on two input tables; I’ll refer to them as the “left” and “right” tables.
The right table is typically a derived table or a TVF. The CROSS APPLY operator implements one logical-
query processing phase—it applies the right table to each row from the left table and produces a result
table with the unified result sets.

--12. What are the two forms of the APPLY operator? Give an example of each.
(pg 180) There are two supported types of APPLY: CROSS APPLY and OUTER APPLY. Like the
JOIN table operator, APPLY performs its work in logical-query phases. CROSS APPLY implements only
one logical-query processing phase, whereas OUTER APPLY implements two.

CROSS APPLY
SELECT S.shipperid, E.empid
FROM Sales.Shippers AS S
CROSS APPLY HR.Employees AS E;

OUTER APPLY
SELECT C.custid, A.orderid, A.orderdate
FROM Sales.Customers AS C
OUTER APPLY
(SELECT TOP (3) orderid, empid, orderdate, requireddate
FROM Sales.Orders AS O
WHERE O.custid = C.custid
ORDER BY orderdate DESC, orderid DESC) AS A;