##Name: TSQL Homework Ch 6

##Author: Derek Cobb

##Date: July 25, 2019

------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Read chapter 6, pages 193 - 204 in the T-SQL Fundamentals book.
Homework questions

--1. What does a set operator do?
(pg 193) Set operators are operators that combine rows from two query result sets (or multisets). Some of
the operators remove duplicates from the result, and hence return a set, whereas others don’t, and
hence return a multiset.

--2. What are the general requirements of a set operator?
(pg 193)
Input Query1
<set_operator>
Input Query2
[ORDER BY ...];

--3. What is a Venn Diagram? This is not in the book.
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Venn_diagram)A Venn diagram is a diagram that shows all possible logical relations between a finite collection of different sets. 
These diagrams depict elements as points in the plane, and sets as regions inside closed curves. 
A Venn diagram consists of multiple overlapping closed curves, usually circles, each representing a set.

--4. Draw a Venn Diagram of the UNION operator. What does it do?
(pg 194) The UNION operator unifies the results of two input queries. If a row appears in any of the input sets,
it will appear in the result of the UNION operator.

--5. Draw a Venn Diagram of the UNION ALL operator. What does it do?
(pg 194) The UNION ALL operator unifies the two input query results without attempting to remove duplicates
from the result.

--6. Draw a Venn Diagram of the INTERSECT operator. What does it do?
(pg 196) The INTERSECT operator returns only the rows that are common to the results of the two input queries.

--7. If SQL Server supported the INTERSECT ALL operator, what would it do?
(pg 197) Similarly, the keyword ALL in the INTERSECT ALL operator means that duplicate intersections
will not be removed. INTERSECT ALL returns the number of duplicate rows matching the lower of the
counts in both input multisets

--8. Draw a Venn Diagram of the EXCEPT operator. What does it do?
(pg 199) The EXCEPT operator implements set differences. It operates on the results of two input queries and
returns rows that appear in the first input but not the second.

--9. If SQL Server supported the EXCEPT ALL operator, what would it do?
(pg 200) The EXCEPT operator implements set differences. It operates on the results of two input queries and
returns rows that appear in the first input but not the second.

--10. What is the precedence of the set operators?
(pg 201) The INTERSECT operator precedes UNION and EXCEPT,
and UNION and EXCEPT are evaluated in order of appearance. Using the ALL variant doesn’t change the
precedence. In a query that contains multiple set operators, first INTERSECT operators are evaluated, and
then operators with the same precedence are evaluated based on their order of appearance